---
layout: post
author: Evan
header-image: /assets/images/blog-images/howdy/howdy.png
header-image-alt: Howdy!
header-image-title: howdy, partner.
tags: web jekyll github-pages ruby
---
They say the best time to start a technical blog is twenty years ago, and that the second best time is today.
<!--end-excerpt-->

Talking points:
[GitHub Pages](#github-pages)
[jekyll]()
[font-awesome]()
[structure]()
[sass]()
[search]()
[ruby plugins]() <http://joshfrankel.me/blog/deploying-a-jekyll-blog-to-github-pages-with-custom-plugins-and-travisci/>
[Travis CI]()
[plans for the future]()

## <a name="github-pages"></a>GitHub Pages

As you may have surmised from the URL, this site is hosted by GitHub Pages. Originally, I was going to register a domain from Hostinger, but GitHub Pages is FREE. Additionally, GitHub is probably the most sensible place to expand my portfolio, and a static site is all I really needed for a technical blog... for now.

The only real trouble I ran into is the fact that when using the github-pages gem, the site is generated safe mode and the plugins directory is a random string.
More on the issue and how I went about solving it [below](#ruby-plugins)

## Jekyll

Straight from Jekyll's GitHub page...

>Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator perfect for personal, project, or organization sites. Think of it like a file-based CMS, without all the complexity. Jekyll takes your content, renders Markdown and Liquid templates, and spits out a complete, static website ready to be served by Apache, Nginx or another web server. Jekyll is the engine behind GitHub Pages, which you can use to host sites right from your GitHub repositories.

For the most part, Jekyll has been a breeze to work with. I would recommend it to anyone looking to build a static site.


## Font Awesome
